# WhatABird_bot 🐤

Repository with Python code for Birds species image classification and for Telegram Bot. Also it contains [Jupyter Notebook](./source/birds_model.ipynb) with ResNet-50 model training and [presentation](./What_A_Bird_Bot.pdf) with some descriptions. Follow the guidelines to set up and launch your Telegram Bot.

## Creating a Telegram Bot

[Here](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/how-to-create-a-telegram-bot-using-python/) the instructions for creating automated chatbots.

1. Getting Bot token
- search for @botfather in Telegram;
- start a conversation with BotFather by clicking on the Start button;
- type `/newbot`, and follow the prompts to set up a new bot. The BotFather will give you a **token** that you will use to authenticate your bot and grant it access to the Telegram API.

**Note**: Make sure you *store the token securely*. Anyone with your token access can easily manipulate your bot.

2. Cloning repository and setting up an environment
- clone this repository using an **SSH** key

```
$ git clone git@github.com:AnasZol/WhatABird_bot.git
```

- navigate to local repository

```
$ cd WhatABird_bot/
```

- create and activate virtual environment with required packages using `conda`

```
$ conda create -n bird_bot --file requirements.txt
$ conda activate bird_bot
```

- install Telegram API packages and `PyTorch` using `pip`

```
$ pip install torch==2.0.0+cu118 torchvision==0.15.1+cu118 torchaudio==2.0.1 --index-url https://download.pytorch.org/whl/cu118
$ pip install aiogram==2.25.1 pyTelegramBotAPI==4.11.0
```

- navigate to `source` folder

```
$ cd source/
```

- open your favorite code editor and create a `.env` file to store your token generated by The BotFather for your bot authentification and access to the Telegram API. Paste the following into file

```
export BOT_TOKEN=your-bot-token-here
```

- read the environment variables from the `.env` file

```source .env```

